README-windows10-host-setup.md, before:

# Setting up Windows 10 with WSL 2 and Docker for local IaC purposes

## Please update Windows 10 to update version 2004 FIRST!

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-2004-update-not-offered-heres-how-to-get-it-now/

## Need WSL 2

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/microsoft-fixes-wsl-2-breaking-bug-in-new-windows-10-update/

## Make sure these settings are set in Windows before you start

Turn on windows features in “Windows Settings” -> “Apps” -> “Apps & Features” -> “Optional Features” -> “More Windows Features” and make sure both “Containers”, "Hyper-V", “Windows Hypervisor Platform” and “Windows Subsystem for Linux” checkboxes are selected.  This will likely required you to reboot the system for the features to become available.

## Install Chocolatey




## Install WSL 2 via Chocolatey

* Installing WSL2 the Chocolatey way (for Windows):
https://chocolatey.org/packages/wsl2

## Install the docker-desktop Chocolatey package

* Installing Docker the Chocolatey way (for Windows - must do the docker-desktop install):
https://stefanscherer.github.io/how-to-install-docker-the-chocolatey-way/

## Install a local docker registry

```
docker pull registry
docker images
docker run --name registry -p 5000:5000 -d registry
docker container list
docker ps
```


## For any software installed by chocolaty, allow it through the windows anti-virus:

### Examples:

  ```
  Add-MpPreference -ExclusionPath C:\HashiCorp -Verbose   # where Vagrant is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclusionPath %ProgramData%\chocolatey   # where a bunch of chocolatey stuff is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclusionPath C:\tools\vim' -Verbose   # where vim is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\Git' -Verbose # where git is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\Docker'   # where Docker is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\KeePassXC'  # where keepass is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\7-Zip'  # where keepass is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\CherryTree'  # where keepass is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files (x86)\Geany'   # where geany is installed
  ```


## Potentially Useful References:

https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4120
https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/all/resolving-wslregisterdistribution-error-0x80370102/412cf42b-1424-444c-bb95-4aa2b5fe5eaf
https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4084
https://www.reddit.com/r/bashonubuntuonwindows/comments/bg2kgo/issues_trying_to_run_ubuntu/
https://gitmemory.com/issue/microsoft/WSL/4084/499579174
https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4709
https://www.assistanz.com/steps-to-configure-private-registry-for-docker-windows-server-2016/

# Older notes that may still be useful

Check if you are using WSL 1 instead of WSL 2...  Please run the following in a powershell window:

```
PS C:\Users\RKevi> wsl -l -v
  NAME                   STATE           VERSION
* Ubuntu                 Stopped         1
  docker-desktop-data    Running         2
```

If you see something like the above - with your linux in the VERSION column saying it's version 1, please make sure there is no linux instance running (close them all out if they are) and run the following:

wsl.exe --set-version Ubuntu 2

This should fix the problem.


Must come after WSL 2 setup

https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-20-04

Commit message:

adding dbus related notes to the windows readme

README-windows10-host-setup.md, after:

# Setting up Windows 10 with WSL 2 and Docker for local IaC purposes

## Please update Windows 10 to update version 2004 FIRST!

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/windows-10-2004-update-not-offered-heres-how-to-get-it-now/

## Need WSL 2

https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/microsoft/microsoft-fixes-wsl-2-breaking-bug-in-new-windows-10-update/

## Make sure these settings are set in Windows before you start

Turn on windows features in “Windows Settings” -> “Apps” -> “Apps & Features” -> “Optional Features” -> “More Windows Features” and make sure both “Containers”, "Hyper-V", “Windows Hypervisor Platform” and “Windows Subsystem for Linux” checkboxes are selected.  This will likely required you to reboot the system for the features to become available.

## Install Chocolatey




## Install WSL 2 via Chocolatey

* Installing WSL2 the Chocolatey way (for Windows):
https://chocolatey.org/packages/wsl2

## Install the docker-desktop Chocolatey package

* Installing Docker the Chocolatey way (for Windows - must do the docker-desktop install):
https://stefanscherer.github.io/how-to-install-docker-the-chocolatey-way/

## Install a local docker registry

```
docker pull registry
docker images
docker run --name registry -p 5000:5000 -d registry
docker container list
docker ps
```


## For any software installed by chocolaty, allow it through the windows anti-virus:

### Examples:

  ```
  Add-MpPreference -ExclusionPath C:\HashiCorp -Verbose   # where Vagrant is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclusionPath %ProgramData%\chocolatey   # where a bunch of chocolatey stuff is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclusionPath C:\tools\vim' -Verbose   # where vim is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\Git' -Verbose # where git is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\Docker'   # where Docker is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\KeePassXC'  # where keepass is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\7-Zip'  # where keepass is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files\CherryTree'  # where keepass is installed
  Add-MpPreference -ExclisionPath 'C:\Program Files (x86)\Geany'   # where geany is installed
  ```

## FAQ

### Q. I'm having trouble with dbus and WSL-Ubuntu insode a mobyxterm window...

### A. https://www.reddit.com/r/bashonubuntuonwindows/comments/9lpc0o/ubuntu_1804_dbus_fix_instructions_with/

### Q.

### A. 

## Potentially Useful References:

https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4120
https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/all/resolving-wslregisterdistribution-error-0x80370102/412cf42b-1424-444c-bb95-4aa2b5fe5eaf
https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4084
https://www.reddit.com/r/bashonubuntuonwindows/comments/bg2kgo/issues_trying_to_run_ubuntu/
https://gitmemory.com/issue/microsoft/WSL/4084/499579174
https://github.com/microsoft/WSL/issues/4709
https://www.assistanz.com/steps-to-configure-private-registry-for-docker-windows-server-2016/

# Older notes that may still be useful

Check if you are using WSL 1 instead of WSL 2...  Please run the following in a powershell window:

```
PS C:\Users\RKevi> wsl -l -v
  NAME                   STATE           VERSION
* Ubuntu                 Stopped         1
  docker-desktop-data    Running         2
```

If you see something like the above - with your linux in the VERSION column saying it's version 1, please make sure there is no linux instance running (close them all out if they are) and run the following:

wsl.exe --set-version Ubuntu 2

This should fix the problem.


Must come after WSL 2 setup

https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-install-and-use-docker-on-ubuntu-20-04
